Cryptograms are word puzzles which encrypt a saying or pun using a simple
substitution code.  For example, the saying "A penny saved is a penny earned"
might appear in a cryptogram as "B QFOOZ TBWFE JT B QFOOZ FBSOFE", by using the
next letter of the alphabet in place of the original ("A" becomes "B", "B"
becomes "C", etc.).  Or, a random substitution sequence might generate "L RFSSG
DLYFU CD L RFSSG FLISFU" ("A" becomes "L", "P" becomes "R", and so on).  To
decipher these codes, one looks for letter frequencies, groupings, and
repetition to provide clues as to the encryption sequence used.

    Popular interest in cryptograms goes back to at least the 19th century. 
Arthur Conan Doyle had Sherlock Holmes decipher such a code in "The Case of the
Dancing Men," in which stick figure men drawn in various positions were used as
an encryption sequence for a secret message.  Edgar Allan Poe in "The Gold Bug"
narrates the deciphering of a message describing the location of buried
treasure.  (The Gold Bug message is included in this kit for you to try your
own hand at breaking the code.)  Nowadays, cryptograms are commonly found in
word game magazines, or in the newspaper next to the crossword puzzle.

    Solving cryptograms requires an initial trial-and-error process.   When
solving by hand, this usually involves repeated markings and erasings as
different substitutions are tried out.  However, using CRYPTOGRAMMER, the
letter translation is automatic, and trial-and-error is a far simpler process.
In addition, CRYPTOGRAMMER provides a simple toolkit for tallying frequencies
of letters, doubles, 2- and 3-letter words, and provides references on typical
frequencies found in everyday usage.
